- [Instructor] Without automation,
the end to end process for releasing
a new feature can be drawn out and cumbersome,
which can get pretty frustrating
for everybody involved.
Within a large enterprise,
it typically includes multiple handoffs
between the development, testing,
security and operations teams,
which each have a step to complete in the process.
These handoffs can spill over into lengthy email chains
about who's on vacation
or when a particular task will be completed.
This tedious process prolongs the delivery of new features,
and it becomes a scramble to make
the release state.
In continuous delivery,
a pipeline is used to accelerate
and remove waste from the process
that takes new code from version control
and makes it available as a new feature for end users.
The pipeline models each step in the delivery process
and automates them to create a rapid,
repeatable and reliable mechanism
for releasing changes to software.
It's designed to identify quality issues and fail quickly
once they're discovered.
This gives us more confidence
in the software that's delivered by the pipeline.
It's important to point out
that every organization's pipeline will look different
because it will be tailored
for their organizational processes.
So let's take a look at a very basic delivery process
and examine where the pipeline fits in.
In this process, we have three phases.
One for the developer workflow,
another for continuous integration, and finally,
one for continuous delivery or deployment.
A change enters the pipeline after
a developer has written and committed
the code for a new feature into the source code repository.
From there, the pipeline advances
to the new version of the source code
through the steps in the continuous integration process,
which outputs an artifact that packages
the new version of the software.
Next, the pipeline progresses
through the steps in the continuous delivery
or deployment stage.
This makes the new software available to end users.
If a step anywhere in the pipeline fails,
the change stops advancing through it,
and feedback is delivered
to the developer regarding the issue with their new feature.
These feedback mechanisms are built
in throughout the pipeline,
so developers quickly get information
about the quality of their software.
As we complete each step in the process,
more confidence in the artifact builds
as we get closer to releasing it to production.
So that's the pipeline at a high level.
Basically, it models the end-to-end process
for releasing a software change
and facilitates its execution through
a heavy dose of automation.